This analysis used data of a selected local government area and the schools located within that area, to compare its type, size, budget, student scores to help understand where budget and priorities should be placed to help the local students excel. From this data, we saw that there are 39,170 student spread across 15 schools,  made up of a combination of ndependently and government run. We can also see that the amount of students passing overall is 72.81%, with more passing maths than reading. After grouping the data per school, we can see that Griffin High School is the highest performing school with an overall passing percentage of 81.34%, meanwhile the worst performing school was Hernandez High School with an overall passing rate of 66.36%. After comparing the maths and reading scores per year group at their respective school, it was shown that each year group performs similarly. School spending was then looked into more thoroughly by grouping the per students budget into ranges, and from this it was observed that the lower budget schools showed better results, shown by the budget range of $585-630 averaging a  passing rate of 79.88%. It was also seen that the schools with less than 1000 students greatly outperformed the larger schools. The smaller schools showed a overall passing percent of 79.07% compared to that of 70.29% for school greater than 2000 students. Lastly, when comparing government schools to those run independently, the independent school outperformed the goverment school by an overall passing percent of 6.3%. It was also evident that students are generally more proficient in maths than reading as in almost every set of analysis the average maths scores were greater than its corrersponding reading score.

The first conclusion we can draw from our analysis, is that students that attend independent schools achieve better results. This is shown by when we look at top performing schools they are predominantly independent, as well as the lower budget per student and small school sizes are all made up of independent schools. From this we can attain that with the smaller school, a greater level of attention is able to be provided to the students to allow them to succeed. 
A second conclusion is that more students are better at maths than reading. Despite the average scores being similar between the two, maths has a greater rate of students passing than reading. For example, three of the top five performing school have a difference of more than 2.7% of students passing maths than reading. A possible conclusion from this for next years budget is more investment in the reading departments of schools.